---
layout: post
title: Series 0 - Spike Ball
---

<i>Growth and decay. Explosions and implosions. Sphere morphology.</i>

<video class="seriesOverviewVideo" height="600" autoplay="autoplay" controls loop >
  <source type="video/mp4" src="/assets/vids/SaveOut_java_sphere_morph.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

<br>
<br>

<span> <i id="0numMint"></i>/<i id="0maxMint"></i> Minted </span>
<br>
<span> Current price: <i id="0ethPrice"></i>  ETH </span>
<br>
<span> This series is paused to purchases: <i id="0pauseStatus"></i></span>
<br>
<span> This series is permanently locked: <i id="0lockStatus"></i></span>
<br>

<div align="center">
  <button  id="0purchase" class="button-general purchaseButton">Purchase</button>
</div>

<div align="center" class="visualizeDiv">
  <span>Purchase made. Congratulations!</span>

  <br> <br>

  Your art piece will be added to the site shortly and a video file of it uploaded to IPFS.

  <br> <br>

  In the meantime, there are 3 steps to visualize your newly minted artwork yourself (it is too computationally expensive to be rendered in the browser):

  <br> <br>

  1. Download Processing on a computer: <a href="https://github.com/processing/processing/releases/download/processing-0270-3.5.4/processing-3.5.4-macosx.zip">Mac Download</a>, <a href="https://github.com/processing/processing/releases/download/processing-0270-3.5.4/processing-3.5.4-windows64.zip">Windows Download</a>. <a href="https://processing.org/download"> General Processing download site</a>.
<br> <br>
  2. Copy and paste the code for this series which is permanently hosted on the blockchain:
<br>
  <code class="language-java" id="Series0-CodeLocation0">
  Placeholder code
  </code>
<br>
<br>

  3. Paste at the top line <code>randomSeed=</code> your unique random seed: <i id="0tokenSeed">Seed placeholder</i>

</div>
<br>

With ... different parameters set from a hash combining your wallet address, the token ID and attributes of the block it is minted on, the time, ... and ..., every spike ball is unique. In fact, there are a total of ... possible variations (add footnote for calculation). The features the vary for each ball include:

* Implosion - Each spike ball has a 30% chance of immediately imploding without any growth stage.
* Ball size
* Ball vertices
* Growth speed
* Ball colour
* Ball stroke colour
* Background colour
* Lighting colour
* Rotation direction
* Rotation speed

# Gallery
{% for item in site.data.works %}
  <li class="token-item">
    <a href="{{ item.link | prepend: "/works" | relative_url |  }}">{{ item.name }}</a>
  </li>
{% endfor %}

## Explanation of the code:

Summary:
A sphere mesh is created out of lots of triangles. A random subset of the vertices are selected morph. Each vertex samples a random number with a small bias in probability towards either growth or decay.

Details:
An [isosphere]() is created by first creating a hexagon and resizing each point to exist on an [L2-norm]() sphere. Vertices are added to the sphere
